Jehovah is the great encourager.
He's the primary giver of strength to his people.
So let's use Jeremiah.
Jeremiah as an example of one who Jehovah encouraged
and let's see what we can learn.
Let's open our Bibles to Jeremiah chapter 1.
Now Jeremiah was about 25 years old when he was commissioned to be a prophet
and he didn't feel qualified.
He said, I'm but a boy.
I'm not ready for this serious responsibility.
What did Jeremiah need?
Jeremiah needed reassurance and he needed encouragement.
So what would Jehovah do?
Well, let's find out chapter 1 and verse 8.
Do not be afraid because of their appearance.
For I am with you to save you declares Jehovah.
I am with you, Jeremiah.
What did that mean?
My Holy Spirit.
Jehovah's Holy Spirit would give Jeremiah the needed strength and encouragement
to maintain his zeal in God's service for some 60 years
that inexhaustible spirit would encourage Jeremiah month after month and year after year.
He needed encouragement.
He got it.
Jehovah did not let him down.
But in addition to Jehovah's Holy Spirit,
what else did Jehovah do for Jeremiah to encourage him?
Well, Jeremiah tells us, let's open up to chapter 15.
Jeremiah chapter 15 and let's read verse 16.
Jeremiah says, your words were found.
Let's pause there.
Your words were found available to Jeremiah.
Were the inspired words, the inspired documents and writings of Moses, Joshua, Samuel, David, Solomon.
But Jeremiah just didn't keep those inspired writings at a distance.
Notice what he says, and I ate them.
Jeremiah took the time to eat, digest, and to meditate on God's word.
It was Jeremiah who compiled first and second kings.
Jeremiah hit the books.
He studied.
He researched the documents that were available to him.
Jeremiah mentioned the history of the book, the history book of the kings 33 times.
He must have drawn encouragement by examining prophecies, prophecies that he saw come true in his very day.
He saw them being fulfilled.
For example, it was Jeremiah that was inspired to record the prophecy at first kings, chapter 13 and verse 2,
where an unnamed man of God during the time of Jeroboam foretold a man, a person named Josiah that would act against false worship.
Now, that prophecy was uttered some 300 years before Jeremiah was even born.
But how this must have strengthened Jeremiah to do the research and to meditate on this prophecy and to live at the time of its fulfillment,
adding to Jeremiah's joy, Josiah was his good friend.
So no wonder he says there in verse 16,
and your word became to me the exultation and the rejoicing of my heart.
So look what we've learned so far.
One, your words were found.
Two, I ate them.
Three, it resulted in the rejoicing of my heart.
Let's take another example.
Have you ever wondered what helped Jeremiah despite being persecuted to keep warning wicked kings,
like Jehovah Kim and Zedakaya to serve Jehovah, where would he get that encouragement from?
Well, consider this, chapter 15 and verse 4.
Verse 4.
And I, Jehovah speaking, and I will make them, God's people, an object of heart to all the kingdoms of the earth because of Manasseh.
The son of Hezekiah, the king of Judah, for what he did in Jerusalem.
For what Manasseh did in Jerusalem.
Now again, Jeremiah had done extensive research into the reigns of the kings, including Manasseh.
It was Jeremiah that recorded how Manasseh set up altars to bail.
He spilt in his simple blood.
He had his own sons passed through the fire.
He did on a grand scale, but was bad in Jehovah's eyes.
Manasseh was wicked.
And yet, Jeremiah would be aware of Manasseh's repentance.
Since Manasseh died when Jeremiah was about 10 years old.
So it's true.
Jeremiah researched Manasseh's terrible conduct, but he also researched his repentance.
So how encouraging that must have been to Jeremiah to see the value of continuing to urge wicked kings.
Like Jehovah Kim and Zedekiah to seek Jehovah's mercy, saying to himself,
if Manasseh, who was notorious for idolatry and bloodshed, could repent and be forgiven, what about you Zedekiah?
Point, God's word, researching it to God's word, energized Jeremiah,
so that he continued to build his faith and his trust and his confidence in Jehovah during difficult times.
Well, humans did fail Jeremiah. It's true.
They didn't give him the encouragement he needed when he needed it. It's true.
But Jehovah never failed Jeremiah.
Jehovah helped him and isn't it the same with us?
At times, we expect encouragement and we might not get it at the time we expect it.
But Jehovah will always give it to us. He'll never fail us.
Do you want encouragement?
Then go to the source of encouragement.
Even a few minutes each day, just a few minutes of Bible reading and meditation each day
reminds us of how our actions touched Jehovah's feelings.
We gain encouragement by thinking about how Jehovah views us, our relationship with him.
Here's a suggestion.
If we need help to jumpstart daily Bible reading, then try this.
Start with Psalm 119.
This Psalm is distinguished by being divided into 22 stanzas, eight verses each.
It takes about one minute to read these eight verses.
And fall in love with those verses. This is Jehovah speaking to us.
But then choose one verse out of the eight.
Just one. A verse that you want to lock on to, you want to sink down deep.
And think about that one verse and ask yourself some questions.
Perhaps it's verse 11 of Psalm 119.
In my heart, I have treasured up your sayings that I may not sin against you.
And now, stir your feelings.
Stir your heart with a few questions.
How many scriptures have I treasured up in my heart that I may not sin against Jehovah?
Can I list two or three on a piece of paper if I had to do so?
Scriptures that are conduct altering.
Scriptures that really do help me in time of temptation or trial.
Now, that only took a few minutes to do, maybe five minutes,
but the value is deep, a lot of value for a little time.
And then if you have more time, tap on that research guide.
And it explodes with more information that can help us in our meditations and love for Jehovah God.
Now, it doesn't take long, but it's consistent.
We form a longing for God's word.
In less than two months, we have eaten and digested some 176 precious thoughts of Jehovah God.
Jehovah is the source of encouragement.
And he's the great encourager, and he wants to encourage us.
But like Jeremiah, we need to eat, digest, and think deeply on the encouragement that
Jehovah does give us through his inspired word, and the result will be the exultation and rejoicing of our hearts.